multi page to single page conversion for own ca and ssr setup guides (#2643)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/set-up-self-service-registration/main/index.md

---
title: Set up self-service registration
meta:
  - name: description
    content: Okta's self-service registration lets you configure a custom app or the Okta homepage for use when users self-register.
layout: Guides
---

This article shows you how to set up Okta's self-service registration (SSR) functionality so that you can configure a custom app or the Okta homepage to allow users to self-register.

---

**Learning outcomes**

> * Use policies to govern SSR behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Use policies to govern SSR behavior
```

> * Enable and disable SSR recovery options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Enable and disable SSR recovery options
```

> * Configure SSR options in the Okta Sign-in Widget.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Configure SSR options in the Okta Sign-In Widget.
```

> * Configure SSR options in the Okta Sign-In Widget.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Configure SSR options in the Okta Sign-In Widget
```

**What you need**

> * SSR to be enabled (this is an Early Access feature — contact [Okta Support](https://support.okta.com/help/s/?_ga=2.17747641.1660906902.1597076228-1076744453.1575496867) to enable it).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* SSR to be enabled (this is an [Early Access](/docs/reference/releases-at-okta/#early-access-ea) feature — contact [Okta Support](https://support.okta.com/help/s/?_ga=2.17747641.1660906902.1597076228-1076744453.1575496867) to enable it).
```

> * SSR to be enabled (this is an [Early Access](/docs/reference/releases-at-okta/#early-access-ea) feature — contact [Okta Support](https://support.okta.com/help/s/?_ga=2.17747641.1660906902.1597076228-1076744453.1575496867) to enable it).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* SSR to be enabled (this is an [Early Access](/docs/reference/releases-at-okta/#early-access-ea) feature — contact [Okta Support](https://support.okta.com/help/s/?_ga=2.17747641.1660906902.1597076228-1076744453.1575496867) to enable it)
```

> * [Super admin permissions](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?id=ext_superadmin) (required to enable SSR).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Super admin permissions](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?id=ext_superadmin) (required to enable SSR)
```

> * Widget version 2.9 or later if you are hosting your own [customized Widget](https://developer.okta.com/code/javascript/okta_sign-in_widget/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Widget version 2.9 or later if you are hosting your own [customized Widget](/code/javascript/okta_sign-in_widget/).
```

> * Widget version 2.9 or later if you are hosting your own [customized Widget](https://developer.okta.com/code/javascript/okta_sign-in_widget/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Widget version 2.9 or later if you are hosting your own [customized Widget](https://developer.okta.com/code/javascript/okta_sign-in_widget/)
```

## Enable and configure a self-service registration policy

Use a self-service registration policy to let users self register for application access. When you create the policy, you can choose the fields that you want to include on the Create Account registration form, specify how those fields are ordered, and mark which of the fields are required.

When you enable a self-service registration policy, Okta enforces uniqueness for all primary email addresses. When registering, users need to provide their email address. Okta automatically uses the email address for the username and primary email address.

> **Note:** The self-service registration password policy doesn't support "does not contain first name" and "does not contain last name" complexity requirements.

1. In the Admin Console, go to **Directory** > **Self-Service Registration**.

2. If this is your first time on this page, click **Enable Registration**. Otherwise, click **Edit**.

3. In the **ACCOUNT** section, you have the option to add a sign-up link and to assign the user to an existing group automatically:

>     * **Add to Sign-In widget:** (Optional) Select if you want to add a sign-up link to your Okta-hosted sign-in page. By adding a sign-up link to the Widget, you eliminate the need to configure a link that uses JavaScript in the Customize Sign-In Page editor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * **Add to Sign-In Widget:** (Optional) Select this option if you want to add a sign-up link to your Okta-hosted sign-in page. By adding a sign-up link to the Widget, you eliminate the need to configure a link that uses JavaScript in the Customize Sign-In Page editor.
```

With Okta, new users are prompted to choose a security image and optionally an additional security question prompt when they first sign in. To provide your users with a seamless and smooth sign-in experience, you may need to disable these options.

1. In the Admin Console, go to **Settings** > **Customization**.

2. In the **Optional User Account Fields** section, click **Edit**.

3. Select **Disabled** from the **Security image** drop-down box, and then click **Save**.

If you don't have any policies configured or your org doesn't allow you to disable additional self-service recovery options, you can skip the following steps. Disabling additional self-service recovery options is an Early Access feature. To enable it, contact [Okta Support](https://support.okta.com/help/s/?_ga=2.17747641.1660906902.1597076228-1076744453.1575496867).

1. Go to **Security** > **Authentication**.

2. Select a policy from the left, click **Edit**, and scroll down to **ACCOUNT RECOVERY**.

3. Clear the **Security question** check box in the **Additional self-service recovery** section.

4. Click **Update Policy**.

5. Repeat steps 3 to 4 for any other policies that you have configured.

> ## Configure registration in the Okta Sign-in Widget

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Configure registration in the Okta Sign-In Widget
```

If you left the [**Add to Sign-In Widget**](#enable-and-configure-a-self-service-registration-policy) check box clear when you configured the registration policy, then you need to configure a link using JavaScript in the **Customize Sign-In Page** HTML editor.

> **Note:** To enable the Custom Sign-In Page HTML editor, you must have a [custom URL domain](/docs/guides/custom-url-domain/overview/) configured.

1. In the Admin Console, go to **Settings** > **Customization**.
2. Click the **Custom Sign In** tab.
3. In the HTML editor, add the following configuration parameters directly under the `var config = OktaUtil.getSignInWidgetConfig();` line:

```javascript
config['features.registration'] = true;
config['authScheme'] = 'SESSION';
```

4. Click **Save and Publish**.

### Configure self-service registration in an embedded or self-hosted Widget

Before you can configure self-service registration in your embedded or self-hosted Widget, ensure that you first enable [self-service registration](#enable-and-configure-a-self-service-registration-policy). Then you can set `feature.registration` in the Widget to `true`.

> ```json

Reviewer 2: we don't typically put notes in code examples...can you pull the note out and put it above the example?

---
title: Set up self-service registration
meta:
  - name: description
    content: Okta's self-service registration lets you configure a custom app or the Okta homepage for use when users self-register.
layout: Guides
---

> This article shows you how to set up Okta's self-service registration (SSR) functionality, which lets you configure a custom app or the Okta homepage to allow users to self-register.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This article shows you how to set up Okta's self-service registration (SSR) functionality so that you can configure a custom app or the Okta homepage to allow users to self-register.
```

---

**Learning outcomes**

* Use policies to govern SSR behavior.
* Enable and disable SSR recovery options.
* Configure SSR options in the Okta Sign-in Widget.

**What you need**

* This is an Early Access feature. To enable it, contact [Okta Support](https://support.okta.com/help/s/?_ga=2.17747641.1660906902.1597076228-1076744453.1575496867).
* [Super admin permissions](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?id=ext_superadmin) are required to enable self-service registration.

> * If you are hosting your own [customized Widget](https://developer.okta.com/code/javascript/okta_sign-in_widget/), version 2.9 or later is required.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Okta Sign-In Widget version 2.9 or later if you are hosting your own [customized Widget](https://developer.okta.com/code/javascript/okta_sign-in_widget/)
```

Author: This was pretty good, but I've tweaked it in my own commit.

**Sample code**

n/a

---

## Overview

A new user's first impression starts with the registration process, making it a critical aspect to get right. Because you're asking a user to give you information for the first time, you need to personalize and streamline the experience.

> Okta's self-service registration lets you configure a custom app or the Okta Homepage for use when users self-register. After you configure and enable your self-service registration policy, a sign-up link appears in the [Okta Sign-In Widget](/code/javascript/okta_sign-in_widget/). Users who click this link are directed to a Create Account registration form that is based on your registration policy.

Reviewer 3: Create Account registration form > Create Account **_R_**egistration form?
Please double-check the form name. Should be uppercase "R".

> **Self-service registration supports these registration workflows:**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Supported registration workflows**
```

> **Self-service registration supports these registration workflows:**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Self-service registration supports these registration workflows:
```

* **Make email verification mandatory.** After registering their information, users are immediately sent an email to verify their email address. Users must click the link in the email to complete the registration process. Users are then redirected to your app or to your org's Okta Homepage.

> **Note:** The lifetime of the emailed link is dictated by the **Activation emails are valid for** setting on the **Security** > **General** page of the Admin Console.

> * **Make email verification optional.** After registration, end users are immediately redirected to your custom app/portal or to your org's Okta Homepage. Okta then sends the user an email requesting verification of their email address.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **Make email verification optional.** After registration, users are immediately redirected to their custom app/portal or to their org's Okta homepage. Okta then sends the user an email to request verification of their email address.
```

Reviewer 3: "your" custom app/portal OR "their"?
"your" org's Okta homepage OR "their"?

## Enable and configure a self-service registration policy

> Use a self-service registration policy to let users self register for application access. When you create the policy, you can choose the fields that you want to include on the Create Account registration form, specify how those fields are ordered, and mark which of the fields are required.

Reviewer 3: Create Account registration form > Create Account **R**egistration form

> **Note:** The self-service registration password policy doesn't support "does not contain first name" and "does not contain last name" complexity requirements.

1. In the Admin Console, go to **Directory** and then **Self-Service Registration**.

2. If this is your first time on this page, click **Enable Registration**. Otherwise, click **Edit**.

3. In the **ACCOUNT** section, you have the option to add a sign-up link and to assign the user to an existing group automatically:

    * **Add to Sign-In widget:** (Optional) Select if you want to add a sign-up link to your Okta-hosted sign-in page. Adding a sign-up link to the Widget eliminates the need to configure a link using JavaScript in the Customize Sign-In Page editor.

    * **Assign to group:** (Optional) Enter the existing group name that users are automatically added to when they self register. Group membership determines which password policy is applied during registration. If no group is specified, Okta applies the Default password policy.

> 4. In the **REGISTRATION FORM** section, you have the option to add a customized label for the Email and Password fields and to define which fields are required. The fields in this section are what the user sees when they register.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4. In the **REGISTRATION FORM** section, you have the option to add a customized label for the **Email** and **Password** fields and to define which fields are required. The fields in this section are what the user sees when they register.
```

    * **Login field form label:** (Optional) Enter a label for the **Email** field on the Create Account registration form.

    * **Password field form label:** (Optional) Enter a label for the **Password** field on the Create Account registration form.

    * **Registration form fields:** (Optional) The `firstName` and `lastName` fields are required and can't be removed. You can accept the default **Form label** value or optionally enter a different field name.

        * To include more fields: click **Add Field** and then select an existing profile attribute from the list.

          > **Note:** If you want to add new profile attributes, click **Configure the Okta user profile** to add them to the Okta user profile. They are then available in the list on this page. Be sure to set the **User permission** drop-down box to **Read - Write** if you want your users to be able to modify the new attributes after registration.

>         * To make a field mandatory: select the **Required** check box.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        * To make a field mandatory: Select the **Required** check box.
```

        * To change the order of the fields on the form: grab the dotted vertical bar on the left to drag a field to a new location.
        * To remove a field: click **X**.

    The registration form supports the following data types:

>     * string

Reviewer 3: Initial uppercase each bullet item.

Author: Good call. I've fixed these in my commit. Thanks!

6. Click **Save**.

7. (Optional) If you added more fields (existing Okta user profile attributes) from the attribute list to the registration form during step 4, and you want your users to be able to modify those fields after registration on their **Settings** page, do the following:

    * Go to **Directory** and then **Profile Editor**.
    * Click **Profile** for the **Okta User (default)** profile.
    * Find the attribute that you added, and then click its information icon.
    * Change the **User permission** drop-down box to **Read - Write**.
    * Click **Save Attribute**.

## Disable the security image and additional self-service recovery options

With Okta, new users are prompted to choose a security image and optionally an additional security question prompt when they first sign in. To provide your users with a seamless and smooth sign-in experience, you may need to disable these options.

1. In the Admin Console, go to **Settings** and then **Customization**.

2. In the **Optional User Account Fields** section, click **Edit**.

3. Select **Disabled** from the **Security image** drop-down box, and then click **Save**.

> If you don't have any policies configured or your org doesn't allow disabling additional self-service recovery options, you can skip the following steps. Disabling additional self-service recovery options is an Early Access feature. To enable it, contact [Okta Support](https://support.okta.com/help/s/?_ga=2.17747641.1660906902.1597076228-1076744453.1575496867).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you don't have any policies configured or your org doesn't allow you to disable additional self-service recovery options, you can skip the following steps. Disabling additional self-service recovery options is an Early Access feature. To enable it, contact [Okta Support](https://support.okta.com/help/s/?_ga=2.17747641.1660906902.1597076228-1076744453.1575496867).
```

1. Go to **Security** and then **Authentication**

2. Select a policy from the left, click **Edit**, and scroll down to **ACCOUNT RECOVERY**.

3. Clear the **Security question** check box in the **Additional self-service recovery** section.

4. Click **Update Policy**.

5. Repeat steps 3 to 4 for any other policies that you have configured.

## Configure registration in the Okta Sign-in Widget

> ### Configure registration in a custom sign-in page in the Okta-hosted widget

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Configure registration in a custom sign-in page in the Okta-hosted Widget
```

> If you left the [**Add to Sign-In widget**](#enable-and-configure-a-self-service-registration-policy) check box clear when configuring the registration policy, then you need to configure a link using JavaScript in the **Customize Sign-In Page** HTML editor.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you left the [**Add to Sign-In Widget**](#enable-and-configure-a-self-service-registration-policy) check box clear when you configured the registration policy, then you need to configure a link using JavaScript in the **Customize Sign-In Page** HTML editor.
```

> **Note:** To enable the Custom Sign-In Page HTML editor, you must have a [custom URL domain](/docs/guides/custom-url-domain/overview/) configured.

> 1. In the Admin Console, go to **Settings** and then **Customization**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. In the Admin Console, go to **Settings** > **Customization**.
```

2. Click the **Custom Sign In** tab.
3. In the HTML editor, add the following configuration parameters directly under the `var config = OktaUtil.getSignInWidgetConfig();` line:

```javascript
config['features.registration'] = true;
config['authScheme'] = 'SESSION';
```

4. Click **Save and Publish**.

> ### Configure self-service registration in an embedded or self-hosted widget

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Configure self-service registration in an embedded or self-hosted Widget
```

> Before you can configure self-service registration in your embedded or self-hosted widget, make sure that you first enable [self-service registration](#enable-and-configure-a-self-service-registration-policy). You can then set `feature.registration` in the widget to `true`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Before you can configure self-service registration in your embedded or self-hosted Widget, ensure that you first enable [self-service registration](#enable-and-configure-a-self-service-registration-policy). You can then set `feature.registration` in the Widget to `true`.
```

```json
      },
      features: {
        // Used to enable registration feature on the widget.
        // https://github.com/okta/okta-signin-widget#feature-flags
         registration: true // REQUIRED
      }
```

## Next steps

> You should now understand how to set up self service registration.

Reviewer 3: Remove this line.

Author: Done; thanks!
